Rework RTI Connext DDS CMake examples compilation 6.1.0 (#393)
rticommunity/rticonnextdds-examples: examples/connext_dds/CMakeLists.txt

    "${CMAKE_CURRENT_SOURCE_DIR}/../../resources/cmake"
)

include(ConnextDdsAddExamplesSubdirectories)

> # Find the ConnextDDS libraries. This will look fo the core and API libraries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Find the ConnextDDS libraries. This will look for core and API libraries
```

    "${CMAKE_CURRENT_SOURCE_DIR}/../../resources/cmake"
)

> set(REQUIRED_VERSION

Reviewer 2: Instead of doing this, I think it is a better idea to set directly the version in each `if` statement. The reason is that this `REQUIRED_VERSION` will change depending on the new features added to the product so, it will be easier to scale the number of examples in the future.

)

find_package(RTIConnextDDS
    "6.0.0"
    COMPONENTS
        core
)

function(send_skip_message example_name)

>     message("-- Skipping "${example_name} " example compilation because you are not using a compatible Connext DDS version.")

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    message(STATUS "Skipping ${example_name} example compilation because you are not using a compatible Connext DDS version.")
```

Reviewer 3: Can you try this @ManuelJNunez ? It should work

        "ordered_presentation_group"
        "partitions"
        "polling_querycondition"
        "polling_read"
        "property_qos"
        "real_time_wan_transport"
        "time_based_filter"
        "using_qos_profiles"
        "using_sequences"
        "using_typecodes"
        "waitset_query_cond"
        "waitset_status_cond"
        "waitsets"
        "xml_application_env"
        "build_systems"
        "compression"
        "detect_samples_dropped"
        "dynamic_data_access_union_discriminator"
        "dynamic_data_nested_structs"
        "dynamic_data_sequences"
        "fragmented_data_statistics"
        "group_coherent_presentation"
        "instance_statistics"
        "network_capture/01_shared_memory_and_udp"
        "network_capture/02_tcp"
        "network_capture/03_security"
        "network_capture/04_advanced_api"
        "printing_qos"
)

# These conditionals could be replaced once we have updated to CMake 3.18.
# To do this, we could replace the if inside the add_examples function
# for cmake_language(EVAL CODE ...) and pass the condition as a string
# parameter instead of passing a boolean.
# Take a look here https://tinyurl.com/cmakelanguage

> if(WIN32 OR NOT BUILD_SHARED_LIBS)

Author: It doesn't apply to examples, it applies to add_examples.

    set(SKIP_CUSTOM_EXTRA_ARGS
     SKIP

>      SKIP_MESSAGE "it is not compatible with Windows and requires DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=ON"

Reviewer: we should say either -DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=ON or BUILD_SHARED_LIBS=ON

    )
endif()

add_examples(
    EXAMPLES
        "custom_transport"
    ${SKIP_CUSTOM_EXTRA_ARGS}
)

> if(NOT BUILD_SHARED_LIBS)

Reviewer: mention to which example applies to, and also why this example should use BUILD_SHARED_LIBS=ON

    set(SKIP_BUILTIN_QOS_EXTRA_ARGS
        SKIP

>         SKIP_MESSAGE "it requires DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=ON"

Reviewer: we should say either -DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=ON or BUILD_SHARED_LIBS=ON

        "multichannel"
        "ordered_presentation"
        "ordered_presentation_group"
        "partitions"
        "polling_querycondition"
        "polling_read"
        "property_qos"
        "real_time_wan_transport"
        "time_based_filter"
        "using_qos_profiles"
        "using_sequences"
        "using_typecodes"
        "waitset_query_cond"
        "waitset_status_cond"
        "waitsets"
        "xml_application_env"
        "build_systems"
        "compression"
        "detect_samples_dropped"
        "dynamic_data_access_union_discriminator"
        "dynamic_data_nested_structs"
        "dynamic_data_sequences"
        "fragmented_data_statistics"
        "group_coherent_presentation"
        "instance_statistics"
        "network_capture/01_shared_memory_and_udp"
        "network_capture/02_tcp"
        "network_capture/03_security"
        "network_capture/04_advanced_api"
        "printing_qos"
)

# These conditionals could be replaced once we have updated to CMake 3.18.
# To do this, we could replace the if inside the add_examples function
# for cmake_language(EVAL CODE ...) and pass the condition as a string
# parameter instead of passing a boolean.

> # Take a look of cmake_language in the documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Take a look at cmake_language in the documentation.
```

> # custom_transport requires D_BUILD_SHARED_LIBS=ON and cannot be compiled on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# custom_transport requires to be built as a shared library and cannot be compiled on
```

# Windows because it uses Unix system calls to perform file operations such as
# locking, reading and writing.
if(WIN32 OR NOT BUILD_SHARED_LIBS)
    set(SKIP_CUSTOM_EXTRA_ARGS
     SKIP
     SKIP_MESSAGE "it is not compatible with Windows and requires DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=ON"
    )
endif()

connextdds_add_examples_subdirectories(
    EXAMPLES
        "custom_transport"
    ${SKIP_CUSTOM_EXTRA_ARGS}
)

> # builtin_qos_profiles needs DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=ON because it will require
> # to be linked against RTI's dynamic libraries so the monitoring library can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# builtin_qos_profiles has to be built as a shared library because it is linked
# against RTI's dynamic libraries so the monitoring library can
```

add_subdirectory("${CMAKE_CURRENT_SOURCE_DIR}/batching/c++03")

# build_systems

> if(${RTICONNEXTDDS_VERSION} VERSION_GREATER_EQUAL ${REQUIRED_VERSION})

Reviewer 2: Add an `else` statement with a message saying something like "skipping example <name> because it requires ConnextDDS version <required version>". Do this for the other examples too

Reviewer 4: Should we do hat in the example itself to make it cleaner? Is that possible?

add_subdirectory("${CMAKE_CURRENT_SOURCE_DIR}/flat_data_latency/c++11")

# fragmented_data_statistics
if(${RTICONNEXTDDS_VERSION} VERSION_GREATER_EQUAL "6.1.0")
    add_subdirectory("${CMAKE_CURRENT_SOURCE_DIR}/fragmented_data_statistics/c")
    add_subdirectory("${CMAKE_CURRENT_SOURCE_DIR}/fragmented_data_statistics/c++")
    add_subdirectory("${CMAKE_CURRENT_SOURCE_DIR}/fragmented_data_statistics/c++11")
else()
    send_skip_message("fragmented_data_statistics")
endif()

# get_publishers

> add_subdirectory("${CMAKE_CURRENT_SOURCE_DIR}/get_publishers/c")

Reviewer: in this case, we do not check `if(${RTICONNEXTDDS_VERSION} VERSION_GREATER_EQUAL "6.0.0")` because we use the find_package with the version 6.0.0.
I'm not a cmake expert, but is it better to have `if(${RTICONNEXTDDS_VERSION} VERSION_GREATER_EQUAL "6.0.0")` for these examples, or keep it as it is? (@lulivi @ManuelJNunez )
Also, in the case that we add the checking for RTI Connext DDS 6.0.0, we can do it by groups:
```
if(${RTICONNEXTDDS_VERSION} VERSION_GREATER_EQUAL "6.0.0")
 #add all the examples of 6.0.0
else()
 #log warning
endif()

if(${RTICONNEXTDDS_VERSION} VERSION_GREATER_EQUAL "6.1.0")
 #add all the examples of 6.1.0
else()
 #log warning
endif()
```

Author: @angelrti The problem is maintaining that file if someone forgets to update it. Now it's ordered in alphabetical order to facilitate the maintaining. Maybe we can update the [pull request template](https://github.com/rticommunity/rticonnextdds-examples/blob/develop/.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md) and add this:

```markdown
<!-- Uncomment bellow if you added a C/C++ example and updated examples/connext_dds/CMakeList.txt -->
- [ ] I added a new C/C++ example and updated `resources/connext_dds/CMakeList.txt`
```

By doing so, we will avoid forgetting to update the top-level `CMakeList.txt`.

Reviewer: sounds good

Reviewer: conclusions per our discussion about this topic:
We will have one `if` clause per version and all the examples that require that version as minimum Connext version will live under that if. For example:
```
if(${RTICONNEXTDDS_VERSION} VERSION_GREATER_EQUAL "6.1.0")
    add_subdirectory("${CMAKE_CURRENT_SOURCE_DIR}/detect_samples_dropped/c")
    add_subdirectory("${CMAKE_CURRENT_SOURCE_DIR}/detect_samples_dropped/c++")
    add_subdirectory("${CMAKE_CURRENT_SOURCE_DIR}/detect_samples_dropped/c++11")
add_subdirectory(
        "${CMAKE_CURRENT_SOURCE_DIR}/dynamic_data_access_union_discriminator/c")
    add_subdirectory(
        "${CMAKE_CURRENT_SOURCE_DIR}/dynamic_data_access_union_discriminator/c++")
    add_subdirectory(
        "${CMAKE_CURRENT_SOURCE_DIR}/dynamic_data_access_union_discriminator/c++11")
...
else()
    #probably list all the examples here that have been skipped
endif()
```
This will help with maintainability when we have more version-specific examples in the future.

Then, we will create (a different issue) a macro to introspect the language folders per example:
```
add_example(detect_samples_dropped)
add_example(dynamic_data_access_union_discriminator)
```
Avoiding adding all the `example_name/language`
